first up my flavor pack lamb with fry
bread whether I'm cooking high-end
dishes or rustic dishes trust me it all
has to be impressive so this lamb dish
proves that you have to spend a fortune
to create delicious food
first off for the panel this is a lamb
steak and it's cut just above the leg
just here because you see that delicious
bone running through the center and
that's full of marrow so that just gives
the lamb a nice added sweet flavor just
take your knife cut through each end
this stops the lamb steak from buckling
so therefore it cooks evenly and colors
beautifully salt and pepper lamb needs
quite a little help with the pepper so
for generously the pepper I just Pat
that down the pan is just under smoke on
the outside now put the oil in get that
pan really nice and hot because this is
a cheap cut so I'm depending on the
color of the lamb steaks are really sort
of impart a lot of flavor the noise you
want to hear you kind of hear that noise
don't drop the steak in put a little bit
of garlic in there not chop garlic
this whole close the garlic lightly
crushed
don't even waste time peeling them in
tongs lift up a bit of fat around the
back that's for the top of the leg tilt
the pan and let all that fat render
rendering is a chef's term that means
melting the fat it works brilliantly
when you're cooking a ribeye as well
coming over beautiful
now it looks like an expensive cut and
we got that nice even sear all over as
it's cooking just tilt the pan and base
I'm facing the LEM steak just means just
sort of adding all that nice senses
garlic olive oil back into the lamb
people now have a lamb out let the lamb
rest
now for the perfect rustic crouton
so this breads quite firm couple days
old just slice it straight down the
center dice it up put into a bowl season
it beautifully from there and add some
milk
sounds strange adding milk to a crouton
but it just gives it that nice rich
creamy texture and just let that mill
sort of absorb into the bread while
that's soaking unlike the dressing go
back to that initial garlic that was in
the pan
beautiful and for the best and water and
chievous
anchovies go brilliantly well with lamb
on that nice salty vinegary flavor and a
big kick some capers there little baby
cats very sweet
now just pound that to a nice paste the
smell is incredible next some Dijon
mustard a nice teaspoon and a half in
open up red wine vinegar 2 tablespoons
and then our extra virgin olive oil now
it's got that heat in there got a nice
roasted garlic a real hearty chunky
vinaigrette that sort of seeps into that
lamb
some fresh parsley crunch up the parsley
delicious flavor past the end nice
now get your pan hot for the croutons
olive oil in the pan
grab the croutons and squeeze all that
excess milk ow
not too hard I don't them dry and in
[Music]
viola and the milk inside these croutons
give it a nice spongy creamy delicious
flavor that's the color what nice now
take them out and lightly drain them put
it kitchen roll onto the board out I'll
plate them just take it's amazing the
Negro and spread it bill
there's croutons listen to them my
little boulders hitting the plate the
lamb sit down on next one on the rest
the croutons on now use all those little
bits and my chef in Paris would kill me
right now if you saw me using those
because they're they ugly scraps that
customers should never see but but
they're the best bits croutons on and
then just drop that sauce and whiz
little bits of the lamb and there is a
perfect way of taking a cheap cut as the
premier league of dishes
[Music]
we've got Parramatta clean lamb chops
with char grill broccoli and boldly
salad to cook the bulgur wheat just
simmer until tender
then drain to give the broccoli a
chargrilled flavor
simply cook with salt in a hot dry pan
until smoky and tender for a quick and
easy aromatic dressing mixed together
harissa paste with either buttermilk or
creme fraiche and add chopped mint
simple as that to serve thoroughly dress
your broccoli and bulgur wheat and
finish with more fresh mint leaves
dessert ready and salads done now for
the aromatic grilled lamb chops how much
do you love lamb holes a lot a lot on a
scale of 1 to 10
okay these lamb chops are gonna be
delicious first we're gonna marinate
them I'll start putting the spices in
first one coriander Commander good so
teaspoon of coriander seeds in I don't
touch off what's that to me well done
cumin in one's daddy's favorite tumeric
Jimmy a teaspoon of that in there now
I will touch of salt and I want you to
start grinding that down while I get the
ginger and the garlic give that a nice
little mix please for daddy that looks
amazing
after that get the garlic lay it flat
and not it almost pure is the garlic so
we got a nice paste only sorry about
dirt in your nails
I just love garlic nothing wrong with
that the more you smell of garlic unless
the boys are gonna date you so right now
the ginger makes it sort of spicy on
fruity now get the ginger and do exactly
the same the ginger you grated like this
it turns into the most amazing ginger
puree off of your dying
how old Holly put some muscle into it
good yeah nice steal that there now I'm
gonna drizzle some olive oil in there
okay
you bring that together as a pace for
daddy there you go John nice good girl
now that smells incredible that is a
delicious pace so I'm your tip all that
marinade on to the lamp I don't want you
to rub it all in to those lamb chops
then we go get your hands in there my
girl
come on holes so look you get them in
there then you rub all that marinade the
flavor inside these chops come on Holly
come on your jump is fine
just smell nice and the early you do
this the better the turmeric you start
to stain the lamb chops they're not even
cooked yet yet they smell delicious
yeah what do you like honestly my nails
my nails delicious after marinating from
10 minutes to overnight but if you can't
wait to get your hands on them you can
grill the chops straight away gasps nice
and high and grilling them it's gonna
make them slightly healthier so lamb on
first one in
or slide that in alongside that so you
sit more in the back
that's right what I want to do is get
those really nice grill marks on there
[Music]
now when I cook them please sides one
side up flip it and then on the back to
this bit here gonna grill it on there as
well now if you could get the yogurt add
the pretty please very nice some fresh
mint want you to pick the mint please
and give it a little chop and mix it in
with the yogurt that's amazing doesn't
it
so yogurt in chop up the min please I
have a look at the color of the lamp
[Music]
so nice of a place smell incredible
grilling in this way they cook so much
quicker okay it's a lot healthier smell
is beautiful slices yeah I reckon Megan
like this I hope so
see what I'm doing I'm standing the
chops up yeah we're not gonna dry out
this way that's fine
and then licks it into the other please
darling how would you know when they're
done nice and pink between a half or
four minutes each sides medium six
minutes well done eight or nine minutes
how'd you like your lamb my darling
medium-rare lamb cutlets at his best
will be medium-rare off with the gas
okay lovely lovely flavor okay look at
that
Wow I'm in heaven one of the secrets
that the slow cooking is to be robust
and really get stuck in big bold flavors
work brilliantly well so don't you
precious
this is gutsy cooking at its absolute
best
these are lamb breasts are beautiful
cheap cut and is sort of tucked
alongside the rib they're being boned
out the skin has been taken off I'm
gonna roll them stuff them and braise
them braising simply means cooking in
liquid on a low heat making the meat
divinely tender now open them up and
give them a really good season season
them both sides inside and out really
important doesn't look like a real
weighty dense cut of meat but once these
beautifully slow-braised it's just like
melting lamb it's incredible on a season
of rests with some dried Oregon ax put
it heat in there some chili flakes lemon
zest just amazing salted anchovies in
there now they almost melts inside of a
lamb so the balance of flavors work
beautifully now pull it down toward you
and roll that nice and tightly
so I'm looking for strength just need to
tie them three times one at each end and
one in the middle I fell in love with
this dish years ago when I first started
working in Paris because I had all the
lamb in from the Pyrenees nice thing is
they can be done the day before pan on
olive oil in give that oil nice and hot
lamb in really important to you
it's a nice color on there whilst
they're browning
slice the onion but I was gonna be
cooking four to nine hours so don't
slice the onions too thinly otherwise
they'll burn garlic and leave whole I've
got a color on them that beautiful take
them out onions in and garlic straight
in love it
that's a secret about slow braising you
never change pans why all the goodness
isn't that one pan through chili seeds
in there are gana nice pinch you over
there lemon in there and I do the onions
what I did to the lamb
next my capers fire them off get them
exploding to bottom the pan they get
nice and crisp in next my black olives
now white wine
you bring that up to the boil
deglazing the pan as well rinsing the
bottom of that pan and now the flavor in
there it's just extraordinary now grab
our tomatoes puncher those plum tomatoes
then simply place the lamb breast back
in the pot and remember to taste
[Music]
[Applause]
that's nice lid on into the oven 172 two
and a half hours and forget about it
well beautiful all that was reduced down
to his amazing nice tomato sauce and the
lamb it's kept its color its braised
beautifully very carefully a little bits
there slice off pull off the little bits
of string this is why I get really
excited my secret is not to slice it too
thinly and smell the lemon
hard to believe when you slice through
the center there but that is a very
cheap cut of meat I'm salivating I love
this I mean it's just incredible
pick up its martyrs and the olives on
the onions an amazing rich horse take
your lamp sort of just sit it on it
looks incredible that for me is why
chefs get so excited with cheap cuts
because the end results are incredible
delicious breasts of lamb with lemon and
trophy's chili and Ariana marinating the
lamb first Cheers
we'll use a mixture of red and green
take off the tops and just slice in
garlic don't worry about chopping these
ultra fine just get it in there cooking
for up to three hours everything sort of
blends and almost sort of cures itself
together the smoked paprika goes
brilliantly well with the chilies two
teaspoons in a touch of dried oregano
some little cumin seeds the blend and
the fragrance that they give out is
extraordinary they release a little the
oil as well helps to tenderize the lamb
touch of salt pepper cinnamon that sort
of sweetens up the lamb
olive oil just a tablespoon and the
olive oil helps to sort of stick all
those wonderful spices to the lamb jump
in just start really rubbing at this
stage you can leave the lamb to marinate
for anything from half an hour to
overnight allowing the spices to really
penetrate the meat giving amazing
results when I'm
delicious vegetables carrots and onions
and that's it
sliced secret slicing vegetables for
braising is not getting too thin you
slice the onions too thin they burn
you've got that horrible char taste on
that slow braised raising it's just a
chef term that means cooking in liquid
on a low heat making the meat incredibly
moist and beautifully tender so the
secret of braising is having a really
nice thick durable pan get that nice and
hot
just a touch of olive oil lamb in hold
the bone you can control them into the
pan
on that white fats to start rendering so
it'll have more fat therefore making it
a lot more flavor some as it braises
chilies cinnamon in mix that up and
don't be scared you're not burning this
you're sort of searing the lamb shanks
and this is the important part right at
the very beginning we're gonna be color
on the lamb which washes off as it
braises in the oven so be generous for
that color vegetables in Wow
and then put the Bailey's so now you
lift the lamb up and get the lamb sat on
top of the vegetables now glaze the pan
with red wine the glazing means that
you'll do cleaning the bottom of the pan
and you're getting that amazing flavor
washed off and lift it up into that
sauce it can really transform that dish
always deglaze then bring to the boil
and cook for about 10 minutes to reduce
the wines reduce down by half now for
the stock bring that stock back up to
the ball and then into the oven now
don't cover it when you cover it all the
conversation comes off the lid your lamb
becomes gray all this effort and that
exciting spice gets washed away no lid
and in the oven for three hours a slow
cook on a low heat of a hundred and
sixty degrees gives us Pisces time to
work and transform the meat so it's
mouth-wateringly tender now
look at those out on to a plate you can
just see that meat sliding down juicy
and incredibly tender grab it by the the
shank rolling around that rich the
delicious sauce that sauce
nice beautiful just it's a mint don't
chop it just pick that fresh mint and
let it snow and there you go a very
spicy delicious melting in our mouth
lamb shank amazing
[Music]
and on for Suffolk it's a saddle of lamb
basically a sort of rolls-royce cut
perfectly shaped and it suits stuffing
to an absolute tea for the stuffing
finely chop an onion garlic nice thin
slices boil in onions and garlic in a
salt and pepper make sure the stuffing
is beautifully seasoned so it helps to
season the inside of the lamp now we've
got a color on those onions
we're throwing some pine nuts that helps
to give a bit of a texture here's where
it starts getting really exciting
spinach in and just lay the spinach over
the pine nuts it looks like a lot of
spinach that's gonna condense and
disappear almost instantly so much more
flavor spin is when you slow to it as
opposed to steaming or boiling you gas
off look at that now to bring that
together no eggs no breadcrumbs crumbled
feta over the spinach feta cheese adds a
beauty salty sharp and creamy flavor
what this does it brings that stuffing
together now open up the lamb cute
there's little Phyllis to the side
that's the channel that we want to
stuffed or just open that up a little
bit there salt and pepper
lightly and before we put our stuffing
in we're season it with sumer sumac is a
wonderful lemony spice that goes
brittany with lamb and you can get it in
most big supermarkets and it sort of
cuts through that thick rich sweetness
of the lamb open up that lamb there take
a spoon if you're preparing this for the
day ahead then let the stuffing cool
down it's inevitable when you start
rolling it and tying it something to
squeeze out so load up the ends take
these beauties these little Phillips
and to support that stuffing and sort of
increase that beautiful tunnel and then
from there over there and bring that
towards you and then roll like I said so
my stuff is going to come out now
but tight first off around the side and
don't worry about some flash which is
not just tire one in the middle you can
get butcher string from your local
butcher or cookware shops I got two ties
go to tie it just forces all that
stuffing out of the lamb when it's in
the oven
nice now we'll just season the top of it
roll the joint to make sure all the skin
gets seasoned now you think normally
that just goes in the oven like that
that's how my mum would do it but did
you tray onto the gas oil in get it
really nicely colored not that your
stuffing is coming out of the sides
really important
look at that color beautiful does kick
start a roasting process gas off into
the oven cook for 45 to 55 minutes
depending on how pink you want your lamb
lick the lamb out of the fat to rest
resting it raised up in the tin or stop
it cooking but not cool it down to
quickly it means you won't lose any of
those lovely juices next I'm making a
simple but sophisticated accompaniment
for the lamb top and tail the cucumber
peel it cut the cucumber into three and
just core take it out all that it's just
sort of water ECD and it spoils the
flavor slice cucumber cucumber in a
really nice way of making a cheap and
cheerful cucumber look glamorous we're
gonna dress that cucumber with a nice
fresh yogurt with tablespoons next it's
a fresh mint dressing touch a salt touch
a pepper and then pomegranate molasses
that just swings it up finish that with
lemon mix that up
laughs its rested carefully take off the
string and then just gently pull them
back straight edge edge knife that's
going to cut through that crispy foul on
the outside instantly I tied it
purposely so I can get my portion
control from the lines hold it nice and
firmly look at your line where the
string was and look this one is gonna be
amazing
lay and down just in those two slices
there
it proves that stuffing meats is for
special occasions because that is a
saddle of lamb and its absolute best
stuffing meats and fish not only makes
them look fantastic it also gives them
an extra added flavor dimension to once
you've mastered the technique you'll be
able to turn out dishes that will
guarantee you'll have an unforgettable
feast